I

'Hee hee hee!'

'Save your breath!' Irrit hissed at Po.

'Irrit' and 'Po'? Are those real names? Yes, they are. As odd as they sound,
they are perfectly normal names—normal for octopuses, that is. As octopuses
have eight tentacles, all octopus names end in '8'; but since the '8' is
common to all octopuses, they just leave it out when talking to each other.
So 'Po' is actually 'Po8' and 'Irrit' is actually 'Irrit8'. Confusing? Not for
octopuses, who are easily the cleverest creatures on earth.

Anyway, Po chuckled when he shouldn't have and Irrit hissed irritably at him.
Po stopped sniggering, but he couldn't help shaking with silent giggles. This
was because Irrit and he were inking fins, spines and tails on Delic8, Clarin8,
Gyr8 and Pyr8. Of course, they weren't actually smearing real, live octopuses.
What they were doing was using their octopus ink to deface a poster
advertising the Oct-estra, Goa Sea World's most popular attraction. Irrit and
Po were green with jealousy at the popularity of the Oct-estra stars, who just
happened to be the parents and siblings of their sworn enemy, Rot!

'Why should the Oct-estra be made up from just one family?' Irrit had
complained to Po.

'It's nepotism!' Po railed.

'That's just what it is!' Irrit agreed. 'Nept...nepos... it's what you said
it is!'

And to make their feelings known, the disgruntled duo had decided to mess up
the poster. Making sure no Sea World keeper was about, Irrit and Po had
sneaked out of the pool. They had slithered up to the poster (placed at the
entrance of a special chamber where the Oct-estra performed) and had gone to
work, smearing and splattering. Soon the poster was a sea of octopus ink and
Irrit and Po gloated over the ugly scrawls marring the faces of the talented
quartet.

Octopuses, however, can stay out of water for only a few minutes, which is why
Irrit had advised Po to save his breath. Now they needed to get back into the
water to breathe and they turned and scurried back. Reaching the edge of the
pool, they were about to plunge in when...

'I wouldn't do that if I were you,' said a voice.

Irrit and Po jumped in fright! Spinning around, they looked about
guiltily—and spotted what looked like a fat, green tub basking in the sun on
the platform above the pool.

Tumboo.

The troublesome twosome grinned. It was only Tumboo. The turtle smiled back,
raised a lazy flipper and pointed towards a corner of the pool. Still
grinning, Irrit and Po looked in the direction indicated. From the depths of
the water rose a dark, triangular fin. It sliced through the pool ominously,
the water rippling in its wake.

'A sha...sha...shark!' croaked Irrit.

'...bark...lark...park...' stuttered Po, who had a tendency to rhyme
uncontrollably whenever his three hearts thudded with fright.

'That's Orca,' said Tumboo, helpfully.

'O...Orca?' Irrit spluttered. 'Is...is that a shark or w...whale?'

'Whale-shark,' replied Tumboo. 'Calls himself "Orca" because he wants to be a
real whale. He can't, of course, so he's always bad-tempered.'

The shark fin glided through the water. Two pairs of octopus eyes helplessly
followed its course, glued to the terrifying triangle.

'...Orca...Majorca...Minorca...' Po rhymed, scared silly.

'Shut up, Po!' barked Irrit, snapping out of his trance.

He knew they were in real trouble. Tumboo could sit in the sun, lazily
breathing air, but Irrit and Po needed to get into the water—and fast! Could
they slither in without Orca noticing? Irrit edged forward, but instantly the
frightening fin turned and headed towards his end of the pool.

'Yow!' yelped Irrit, hurriedly pulling back from the edge.

'Ow!' cried Po, as Irrit stumbled over his tentacles. Off-balance, their
tentacles entangled, the two octopuses grabbed at each other and twirled and
tangoed to the very edge of the pool. For a moment, they teetered on the rim;
another step and they would have plunged into the shark-infested water! But
with a desperate thrashing of tentacles they managed to dance back, gasping
with terror.

'Encore!' Tumboo cried, clapping her flippers in appreciation of the
octopuses' spontaneous salsa. 'Encore!'

'Anchor?' Irrit panted. 'What's she shouting "anchor" for?'

'"Encore", you ignorant jug of jelly!' grinned Tumboo. 'It means "do it
again"!'

Irrit and Po, however, were in no mood to 'do it again'. Their choreographic
exertions had drained almost every last breath from their bodies. They had to
get oxygen, but with a bad-tempered shark just inches away, plunging into the
pool was a definite no-no. They panted and gasped like fish out of water,
which, of course, is exactly what they were.

'Need help?' Tumboo enquired, politely.

'W...We don't need h...help from an overweight tub o...of lard!'

'...card...hard...bard...'

'Shut up, Po!'

'...woe...low...no...'

'Well, I did have a plan, but...' Tumboo started lumbering away. 'See you
around...maybe!'

A plan!

Irrit was extremely wary of Rot and Tumboo's plans, but the situation was
desperate.

'Hey!' Irrit gasped. 'We...we're listening...'

Tumboo grinned and turned towards the panting pair. 'Glad you changed your
mind!' She indicated the hovering shark. 'What you need to do is distract
him.'

'And how do we d...do that?' Irrit wheezed, sarcastically.

'Simple,' smiled Tumboo. 'I jump in. He comes after me. You get in and escape
through the pipe into the next pool.'

Irrit looked at the turtle. The plan could work. Orca couldn't bite through
Tumboo's tough shell, but he'd waste time trying to do so, allowing Irrit and
Po to make good their escape. It seemed perfect. But...

'What's th...the catch?' Irrit panted.

'...latch...match...snatch...'

'Now that you mention it,' Tumboo mused, 'there is one thing...'

'I knew it!' Irrit said, breathing hard. 'O...out with it!'

'Okay. You know Sea World is putting on a show? A week from now?'

'Yeah. S...so?'

Tumboo indicated the defaced poster. 'Rot and I can't match your artistic
talent, but we've composed a tune for the show.'

'T...tune?' Irrit spluttered.

'Let me hum it for you,' Tumboo said brightly, and started warbling a
sprightly melody.

Irrit gawped at the tuneful turtle, wondering if she'd been out in the sun too
long. Tumboo hummed on, throwing her head back, drawing in a lungful of air
and belting out a final, ear-splitting high C.

'Well, that's the tune,' she smiled. 'Great, isn't it? Now all we need are
the lyrics!'

'L...lyrics?'

'Everyone knows you have a way with words, Po,' she smiled innocently. 'Can
you help us? We've even come up with the first line, but we're kind of stuck.
It goes like this: We're Irrit and Po, two rotters...'

'Rotters?!' protested Po.

'Well, we're not poets like you,' Tumboo said soothingly. 'If you've got a
better word...rogues...rascals...rats...go right ahead. We're not fussy!'

'Y...you think I'm g...going to help you i...insult us?!' Po asked, his
poetic feelings outraged.

'You're not?' Tumboo said, looking disappointed. 'I guess it's all about
poetic temperament. You can't force inspiration.' She waved brightly at the
drained duo and waddled off. 'Be seeing you...maybe!'

'W...wait!' Irrit gasped. 'S...stop!'

Tumboo looked back questioningly.

'W...we'll do it!' Irrit rasped. 'W...won't we, Po?'

'B...but that tub of lard, she called us "r...rotters"! "Ro..."

Irrit clapped a tentacle over Po's runaway mouth.

'And that's w...what we are!' Irrit panted. Sticking his face close to Po's
ear-sac, Irrit hissed, 'You've got a minute to come up with the w...words,
you bubble-brained balladeer, or we g...go into the pool with that!' He
jabbed a tentacle in the direction of the horrific fin.

Po's eyes went round with terror. 'I...I'll do it!' he squeaked.

Tumboo turned. 'Now isn't that nice!' She settled herself comfortably.

Po wheezed and gasped, his mind blank.

'Come on, c...come on!' panted Irrit.

The terrifying fin closed in on the pool's edge. Fear concentrates a mind
wonderfully, even a vacant mind like Po's, and suddenly he spouted:

We're Irrit and Po, two rotters,
Much dumber are we than we think,
We do nothing but muddy the waters,
Soiling every clear thing with ink!
CHORUS: Ohhh! Soiling and smearing with ink!
We're of the friendly species 'octopus',
But of niceness we have not a jot,
Of ev'ry sea dweller we're jealous,
Particularly of Tumboo and Rot!
CHORUS: Ohhh! They're jealous of Tumboo and Rot!
Our hearts are like a sea lion's,
At least that's our heartfelt wish,
But if I didn't tell you I'd be lyin',
In our hearts we're just jellyfish!
CHORUS: Ohhh! Jellyfish, they are jellyfish!
Bullying sardines, for us, is a lark,
We'd gladly push around a shrimp,
But confront us with whale or shark,
And watch our tentacles go limp!
CHORUS: Ohhh! Watch them go hopelessly limp!

'Ha ha ha!' yelled Tumboo, her kilos quivering with helpless laughter.

Irrit, though, had a completely different opinion. He had already turned a
delicate blue from lack of oxygen, but on hearing Po's vivid verse, he went
bright purple! Fuming, he clapped three tentacles onto Po's beak, cutting off
the stream of stanzas.

'That's q...quite enough, Po!'

'No, no,' Tumboo objected. This was the best laugh she'd had in days. 'Look!
Even the shark's enjoying it!'

Which, strangely, seemed to be true. The fin was no longer slicing menacingly
through the water. It was shaking and jerking all over the pool! This was a
turn of events even Irrit couldn't ignore. Reluctantly, he unwound his
tentacles from around Po's mouth. Instantly, the inspired poet took up from
where he'd been cut off:

All we want is to be on the show,
Our names to see illuminated:
THE SHOWSTOPPERS—IRRIT AND PO!
But to work hard we're not 'inclined'.
CHORUS: Ohhh! To be slackers they are 'inclined'!

Not a talented bone in our body,
We're two useless, talentless drones,
But with an excuse we are ever ready;
'Octopuses, you know, have no bones!'
CHORUS: Ohhh! No talented bones, no bones!
Since we're untalented (and that's a fact),
We'll sabotage all other species,
Mess up everyone else's act,
And then gasp, pant, wheeze, wheeze...

'Wheeze, wheeze' wasn't a rhyme for 'species'—Po had literally run out of
breath! The deluge of doggerel sputtered and petered out. Po swayed and before
Irrit could grab him, toppled right into the pool!

'H...help!' croaked Irrit. Breathless himself, he sagged to the ground,
looking on in helpless horror as his buddy hit the water not five feet from
the shark!

With the unconscious octopus at its mercy, the shark could have...

~ raced in, carved Po up with razor-like teeth and swallowed him whole!

OR

~ grabbed Po and dragged him to the shark lair, to be shared among other
hungry sharks!

Oddly, it did neither. The shark fin shivered and suddenly burst out of the
water. And below the fin there was NO SHARK! The fin was attached to a holder
that was fastened to the halfway limb of an octopus who followed it out of the
water, doubled over with laughter!

'Ha ha ha ha ha!' roared Rot. He hadn't been able to hold himself in anymore.
'Orca the whale-shark! That was terrific, Tumbs! Ha ha ha ha!'

'A nice touch, if I say so myself,' grinned Tumboo.

'A...and did you get those lyrics?' Rot hooted. 'Octopuses, you know, have no
bones!' Sheer genius! That song's going to be the hit of the show!'

Tumboo guffawed and Irrit watched in disbelief as Rot let the air out of the
inflatable fin.

'You...you...' Irrit gasped but, like Po, he had run out of the breath needed
to express his feelings.

'Shove him into the water, Tumbs,' Rot said, still laughing. 'Let them get
some oxygen into their gills.'
